Hi folks welcome back.
In this video we're going to look at the Q free and reload current scene commands.
And we're going to do this because there's a bug in our game.
Let's take a quick look at what that bug is.
Before I talk about what we're going to do to fix it so we have our game hit run and just type in any
odd knots so a name is Sam.
A thing is a pencil.
A feeling is groovy.
Another thing is groovy.
And some things are x box controllers.
So far so good.
But what happens if I type more stuff in here.
We get a crash and why are we crashing.
Well let's take a look.
Invalid get indexed 6 on base a race line 21.
Okay.
What's happening is right here we are trying to put more player words into the story than there are
gaps for them.
And God doesn't like that.
By the end of this video we're going to change the functionality of it so that when I type things in
here and I get to the end of the story the text box is going to go away me I can't type anything.
The button is going to change the word to again and pressing the button will restart the game.
To do this will do a few things first.
Were going to remove the line edit node when telling the story.
That text box.
I'm not going to let the player type at all.
It's going to take it away.
Secondly that okay button would go change the functionality.
When the story is done when a story's been told if I press the button again don't try and grab text
just restart the game.
Which means we need to figure out how to restart the game.
So let's get into it.
Here we are back our script may go into a distraction free mode.
OK first thing I need to do is create an end game function like I probably do this in the tell story
but I like to separate these.
I can really see it one looks.
So here is an end game function and before everything else which can be tough to pass it doesn't throw
an error one on explaining it.
Agreed the function.
And now let's call the function call at the end of tell story.
The first thing I want to happen is I want to get rid of the text box node which is similar to demoed
this one here right where the player can write.
So first I need to select which not talking about.
So that's going to be do.
There it is text box dot Q underscore free.
What does Q freedom Q free says remove this node from the scene right.
By the way nice little touch.
In God we don't terminate things we free them run my beautiful text box.
You wonderful line and it noad your free.
Go with you.
Be with your nosy people.
That's what we're doing.
We're saying when you get to this remove this from the box let's just see how that works.
So name.
DUCHESS.
More rovi of cups.
Thing.
IPhone.
16 thousand 15.
I can't type a feeling squidgy.
Another feeling unwell and some things charger's OK.
And look.
The box is gone.
Now this button is still going to crash the game but we're making progress.
Okay so we've got an end state where we're just going to remove that text box the player can only type
if there is something to type.
So what's the next thing we need to do.
Well when this story is done we need to change the functionality so there's a few different ways we
can do this board.
I'd like to do.
Function is story underscore done brackets and let's write pass in there right now when we talk about
it.
Okay what I want to do is call this function from other functions and see if it's true.
And I could do.
Is true and all the rest of it or I could use return return is a really useful command.
So return past the information that I'm about to state to whatever function just called this one.
So if we're in check play a word length and we check is story done then all I need to do is return it
information.
What information this information.
I'm not going to copy the if I don't need that just return play word size is equal to prompt size.
What is going return is a true or false.
It is throwing an error up because I don't need that colon there.
So this function does exactly one thing it checks if the story is done.
OK it's another I've got that.
I don't have to keep repeating this piece of code.
I can just copy is story done and put it right and put it right here on the if statement.
So when you're checking a player word length check if it's story done tell story.
Now you can go equal equal true or if you prefer does not equal false.
But there's no need.
The if statement alone will do this right.
I'm calling this.
It's just going to return True or false.
So if you return TRUE tell the story and if you don't prompt the player and look how much more readable
this is right.
This is almost in English.
Check the player word length to do that.
See if the story is done if it is tell the story.
Else prompt the player.
That's the kind of code we want to see something that somebody else can pick up someone else on our
team or myself in 3 years if they ever picked this up again can look at this and understand what's going
on.
So let's make sure the button actually does the thing we needed to do but to go to the button and then
create another IF statement.
What do I need to do.
Well I need to check is story done so just like the other one.
Do a thing if it isn't.
Then take the information as we've been doing before.
So what do I need to do when the story's done.
Well I need to restart the game to restart the game.
All I really need to do in this case is restart the scene because we only have one scene in the game.
OK.
So how do I reload the scene.
We looked at how to manipulate other nodes in the seam tree.
Right.
And we can do that with get node which is what this dollar sign is a short cut for we can not only get
node we can get tree which is going to get the entire scene tree done just get one node get the whole
tree.
This is really useful.
And then what we need to do to reload currency reload currency does exactly what it sounds like.
Take this and reload it.
So let's see if that works.
Can I have a name.
Captain T rex thing a power saw.
I've been playing a lot of Arc recently so I have done stores and I had a feeling rexa licious totally
a word and another feeling confused actually a word webcams.
And when I pressed the button it restarts the game.
Fantastic.
Which brings me to the challenge.
I'd like you to change the button text so that instead of saying okay it says again when the story is
being told.
So that way the player will know by pressing this I can reload the game.
It doesn't have to say again because a restart or play again or once more Omar or whatever you want
to change the button text pause the video give that a go.
When you come back I'll show you my solution.
Okay let's take a look see.
So what I want to do is get this button label and change it again.
We've done this before it's exactly the same as it would be for a text box when we put text in there
or the story tax.
We're just going to find out what's the text called property is text and it's called button label.
I'm going to go into the script.
I'm going to go to tell story.
This is where I want to put it right.
And I'm going to grab it so blackboard story Button Button label.
That's the one I want.
Text equals.
Again and let's give that a shot.
One two three four five hour gap.
Okay good.
It's too big SUMPTION a wrist size that a little bit I can also change the font size.
Let's recite it.
So on to make this a little little bit smaller.
Billy Billy.
Billy am I going to move this over here.
That should be about far enough.
Thinking bigger again.
And now should expand the textbooks one more time.
And there it is.
Perfect.
Which brings us to the end of the video.
We've learned how to remove a node from the scene with Q free which is really handy and we've learned
how to reload the current scene with get tree reload currency.
These are really strong foundational things.
And when you've got hundreds of bullets flying around the screen we need to pick up coins in a platform
game.
Q free is going to be your friend.
So great work and I'll see your next video.